Project 5: Security Due: December 13, 2015, 11:59:59 pm, v1.02

(raw markdown)

Changes

1) small clarifications about session key -1.01 2) clarification about
local1 being the new replica -1.02

Introduction In this project you will have fun with hashes, MAC's,
symmetric encryption, and assymmetric encryption (RSA). At a high
level, this project differs from Project 4 as follows:

All replicas have distinct, well-known public keys. A replica, X,
joins the system by picking any currently-participating replica, Y,
and authenticating with respect to Y. Y gives X the common AES key
aeskey. All other communication is encrypted with aeskey. Support
files can be found here.

Bootstrapping Into the System The authentication handshake is shown
below. local1 is the new replica, authenticating with respect to
local2:

Replica "local1", concatenates its identify to a 64-bit nonce,
encrypts with the public key of the other replica ("local2"). "local2"
responds with two quantities. The first is the AES key that will be
used as a session key for all subsequent communication. The second is
just the encryption of "local1"'s initial challenge with the AES
session key. Note that "local2" is authenticated to "local1" via the
Nc challenge, but "local1" is not authenticated to "local2". This is
reasonable as subsequent use of the session key implicitly prove
"local1"'s identity.

Authenticating All Communication Other than the initial startup RPC,
the rest of the communication should all be encrypted with the session
key (aeskey). For example (ZMQ):

func send(sock *zmq.Socket, m *Message) error { m.From = pid bytes, _
:= json.Marshal(m) num, err := sock.SendBytes(bytes, 0) becomes:

func send(sock *zmq.Socket, m *Message) error { m.From = pid bytes, _
:= json.Marshal(m) bytes = aesEncrypt(aeskey, bytes) num, err :=
sock.SendBytes(bytes, 0) and likewise with the receive
commands. aesEncrypt/aesDecrypt() are exactly the function in
"crypto.go", except you must add HMAC integrity protection.

Add integrity protection by taking the HMAC of the ciphertext
(i.e. after the JSON has been encrypted), and appending the resulting
HMAC tag to the end of the ciphertext. The HMAC secret will just
aeskey.

Notes Nonces and AES keys are of size aes.BlockSize, as in
"crypto.go". The "-a" option allows specification of a new replica's
authenticating partner, e.g., "-a hyper2". The "-r" option is as
before. Every replica should have access to all public keys, probably
just in the p5 working directory. A replica with tag "local1" should
use local1public.key and local1private.key. Though the corresponding
private keys might be located in the working directory as above, a
given replica should only access its own private key. Look at
"crypto.go" for examples of creating and using both RSA (asymmetric)
and AES (symmetric) encryption. Finally, you might want to use a set
of tags like the following:

local1,12,dss1,dbdss1,127.0.0.1,5150
local2,13,dss2,dbdss2,127.0.0.1,5160
local3,14,dss3,dbdss3,127.0.0.1,5170 in your config.txt. Be sure to
change the port numbers if you are going to be running on hyperion
(because of interference from others).

Submit via the submit server as before.

Project 5: Security Due: December 13, 2015, 11:59:59 pm, v1.02 Changes
Introduction Bootstrapping Into the System Authenticating All
Communication Notes Submit

